Adding rds fault docs (#33)
chaosnative/developer-hub-cn: docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/aws/rds-instance-delete.md

---
id: rds-instance-delete
title: RDS Instance Delete
---

## Introduction

> - RDS Instance delete can induce an rds instance delete chaos on AWS RDS cluster. It derives the instance under chaos from RDS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RDS Instance delete can induce an RDS instance delete chaos on AWS RDS cluster. It derives the instance under chaos from RDS cluster.
```

:::tip Fault execution flow chart
![RDS Instance Delete](./static/images/rds-instance-delete.png)
:::

## Prerequisites

:::info

> - Ensure that Kubernetes Version >= 1.17

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes >= 1.17
```

**AWS RDS Access Requirement:**

- Ensure that you have sufficient AWS access to delete RDS instances.

- Ensure to create a Kubernetes secret having the AWS access configuration(key) in the `CHAOS_NAMESPACE`. A sample secret file looks like:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: cloud-secret
type: Opaque
stringData:
  cloud_config.yml: |-
    # Add the cloud AWS credentials respectively
    [default]
    aws_access_key_id = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    aws_secret_access_key = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

- If you change the secret key name (from `cloud_config.yml`) please also update the `AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE` ENV value on `experiment.yaml`with the same name.

## Default Validations

:::info

- RDS instance should be in healthy state.

:::

> ## Experiment tunables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fault tunables
```

<details>

>     <summary>Check the Experiment Tunables</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <summary>Check the Fault Tunables</summary>
```

        </tr>
    </table>
    <h2>Optional Fields</h2>
    <table>
      <tr>
        <th> Variables </th>
        <th> Description </th>
        <th> Notes </th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION </td>
        <td> The total time duration for chaos insertion (sec) </td>
        <td> Defaults to 30s </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> INSTANCE_AFFECTED_PERC </td>
        <td> The Percentage of total rds instance that are part of rds cluster to target </td>
        <td> Defaults to 0 (corresponds to 1 instance), provide numeric value only </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> SEQUENCE </td>
        <td> It defines sequence of chaos execution for multiple instance</td>
        <td> Default value: parallel. Supported: serial, parallel </td>
      </tr>
      <tr> 
        <td> AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE </td>
        <td> Provide the path for aws secret credentials</td>
        <td> Defaults to <code>/tmp/cloud_config.yml</code> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> RAMP_TIME </td>
        <td> Period to wait before and after injection of chaos in sec </td>
        <td> Eg. 30 </td>
      </tr>
    </table>
</details>

> ## Experiment Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fault Examples
```

### Common and AWS specific tunables

> Refer the [common attributes](../common-tunables-for-all-experiments) and [AWS specific tunable](./aws-experiments-tunables) to tune the common tunables for all experiments and aws specific tunables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer the [common attributes](../common-tunables-for-all-experiments) and [AWS specific tunable](./aws-experiments-tunables) to tune the common tunables for all faults and aws specific tunables.
```

### RDS_CLUSTER_NAME

> It defines the cluster name of the target RDS cluster. We can provide the RDS_CLUSTER_NAME using `CLUSTER_NAME` ENVs as well. If not provided experiment will select the Instance Idenfier provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It defines the cluster name of the target RDS cluster. We can also provide the `RDS_CLUSTER_NAME` using `CLUSTER_NAME` ENVs. If not provided, the experiment will select the Instance Identifier provided.
```

Use the following example to tune this:

[embedmd]:# (./static/manifests/rds-instance-delete/instance-delete-cluster.yaml yaml)
```yaml
# delete the rds instance
apiVersion: litmuschaos.io/v1alpha1
kind: ChaosEngine
metadata:
  name: engine-nginx
spec:
  engineState: "active"
  annotationCheck: "false"
  chaosServiceAccount: litmus-admin
  experiments:
  - name: rds-instance-delete
    spec:
      components:
        env:
        # provide the name of rds cluster
        - name: CLUSTER_NAME
          value: 'rds-demo-cluster'
        - name: REGION
          value: 'us-east-2'
        - name: TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION

>           VALUE: '60'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          value: '60'
```

```
### RDS_INSTANCE_IDENTIFIER 
 
It defines the RDS instnace name. We can provide the RDS_INSTANCE_IDENTIFIER using `RDS_INSTANCE_IDENTIFIER` ENVs.

Use the following example to tune this:

[embedmd]:# (./static/manifests/rds-instance-delete/instance-delete-instance.yaml yaml)
```yaml
# delete the rds instance
apiVersion: litmuschaos.io/v1alpha1
kind: ChaosEngine
metadata:
  name: engine-nginx
spec:
  engineState: "active"
  annotationCheck: "false"
  chaosServiceAccount: litmus-admin
  experiments:
  - name: rds-instance-delete
    spec:
      components:
        env:
        # provide the rds instance identifier 
        - name: RDS_INSTANCE_IDENTIFIER
          value: 'rds-demo-instance-1,rds-demo-instance-2'
        - name: INSTANCE_AFFECTED_PERC
          value: '100'
        - name: REGION
          value: 'us-east-2'
        - name: TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION

>           VALUE: '60'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          value: '60'
```
Please change in other places too.
